Now why don't we take a breather and in fact let's test that out and let's explore in more detail the
awesome Firefox developer tools and how they can help you when you're developing.
Great.
OK.
Now first of all why don't we change this to just a simple grid gap.
Grid gap and I'm gonna set this to let's say one hour Ms.
Most organized right away one fraction like so.
So now I have three column layout as well as three rows.
Now Firefox has awesome developer tools whether you are using the Firefox developer edition or just
a simple Firefox.
Now in my case I'm using developer ignition but when I said you could as easily use a simple Firefox
as well so I could test them out right here in a small browser window.
But it's just going to be a little bit useful if we're going to head over to a bigger browser window
as you see I'm using the Firefox.
That should do it.
Then in order to actually open up developer tools we just right click it click on Inspect Element and
right away we can notice something interesting.
There's this little tab that says okay you know what you are using the grid.
That's an awesome start.
Then if we head over here to the right hand side where we have our layout that is displayed we can notice
that the container is in fact using the grid.
Now here you also have a checkboxes.
Now we haven't talked about yet the line numbers we haven't talked about the area names but then also
we have extend lines indefinitely or infinitely sorry.
So again we're gonna cover the line numbers the display area names as well as how is going to look like
once we extend the lines infinitely.
But notice we right away have the idea the actual display idea how our grid is going to look like.
And that's usually one of the things as you're starting out with the grid.
Well you kind of have this.
Okay.
So I'm setting up the grid but visually how this is going to look like.
So this is where really Firefox come into play where you can in fact just visualize right away how your
glare is going to look like.
And as you notice as I'm going over my cells I can clearly see so that is going to be let's say a row
three and column three.
It says that right away.
So as I'm going over I can notice.
OK.
Which cell I'm exactly talking about.
Now when I said in order to make things interesting we're gonna head over back and I'm gonna change
these values I'm going to say that you know what it is going to be hundred pixels or pixels.
I'm going to have a three hundred pixel layout when we do the same thing here for this guy.
And you know why don't we change it also around 4 euros.
So I'm just going to grab all these values and you're gonna see in a second why I'm doing that.
But when I copy and pasted so I'm going to have three rows as well as three three columns.
Now if we head over back I would also like to see the line numbers.
We haven't talked about them but I just want to show you how they're going to look like.
So we're going to click on the line numbers and you'll notice that there's going to be some line numbers
here.
Now currently cannot see unfortunately the number one not sitting here on the left hand side.
So one of the solutions if you have the same problem we can just head over where we have right now our
container.
Correct.
And then for a container I'm just going to add a margin all around and I'm gonna go with I don't know
let's say 10 areas.
Now again please remember that I'm just changing that within the browser.
So the moment I'm going to refresh it's going to go back to normal.
OK.
So now I set up an arms and notice there's going to be a line numbers where we have line numbers for
the columns as well as the line numbers for these rows and this is gonna be very helpful when we're
going to learn about them because this is going to again help us visualize what we are doing in fact
because when using here says grid we're going to be able to in fact set up to sell let's say that uses
the rows and the columns let's say columns starting from Column number 1 all the way to Column number
three as well as using the rows starting here from the line number one all the way to line number three.
But this should give you a visual idea that when we're setting up the grade we get these line numbers
as well as for the columns as well as the robes correct.
So everything is going to be numbered.
So for the columns again we start with one then we go all the way to the four and you also notice that
we have the negative this is gonna be come in handy later on when I'm going to show you how we can just
set up calm spanning from one side all the way to another side.
If let's say we don't know the number so that would be the line numbers.
Now we're also going to later on talk about display Aryan names.
Now currently we cannot see any area names because we haven't talked about areas yet but of course this
is something that we're going to do.
And then most of all we can also see the extend lines infinitely where I could just set up and you can
see right now the lines that I'm using for the columns are in fact spanning infinitely as well as the
lines that I'm using for the rows are spanning in fluently.
Again these would be CSX grid tools that we can nicely use in the Firefox browser that really help you
visualize of what kind of grid you have.
Now I'm not going to do that on a smaller browser window because I already have everything pretty much
using exactly the space that I would want because I would want you to clearly see what corner we're
typing and what would be the result.
But once in a while I'm going to switch back and forth and just to show you let's say what kind of values
we have visually.
Now it is going to be especially important once we start talking about the display numbers and display
area names because it is going to help you visualize how your grid actually looks like.